Git Basics

Git keeps track of all changes on a project.  As you work on a project, Git makes 
a history of all the changes made.  It keeps exact copies of previous progress 
before any new change is made.  If a change does not work like it should or introduces 
a bug, Git allows you to go back to the exact copy of the files before the change was 
made.  Changes are made on a copy of the original files.  When it is decided that the 
changes should be made to the original, Git makes the changes and makes a new “version” 
of the project files.
      
More than one person can make changes to the same file at the same time.  Each person 
receives a copy of the current version to work on.  When each person’s copy is ready 
to be added to make a new version, Git checks for any places that more than one change 
is made, but that are different.  Git will make the person in charge decide which of 
those changes to keep.


GitHub

GitHub is a website that hosts software projects that Git is tracking.  Using the Git 
program on your computer, you upload your files to GitHub.  You then have a back up 
copy and you can work on your project even if you don't have your computer.  Git tracks 
both the files on your computer and the files held at GitHub.

After you have made changes to the files on your computer, you can use Git to sync your 
files held at GitHub with your newly changed files on your computer. Git, of course
keeps a history of all of your changes.

This is how a team of people can work on one project at the same time as the others 
on the team.  The main copy of the project is hosted at GitHub.  As you start to update 
the project, you download the main copy to your own computer because others may have 
made changes since the last time you worked on it.  After making changes to the copy 
of the main program held on your computer, you upload those changes to GitHub.  The team 
can review the changes that you've made then decide to update the main program with 
your changes.
